# Distant-Political-Classification
Code for the pipeline developed to classify news articles based on 'distant' labels found in their URLs. 
This approach is able to save valuable resources by reducing time and money spent on manual annotation. 

This approach is documented and rigorously tested in the working paper titled "Distant Political News Classification: Facilitating Machine Learning
Identification of Political News Across Multilingual Corpora"

The abstract is the following:

The increasing volume of online news has made it considerably more difficult for scholars
to identify political news. Ongoing advances in computational methods and natural
language processing help to tackle this challenge. Yet, scholars who aim to take a
comparative approach to study political news content are facing the challenge of addressing
multiple languages. Training individual supervised machine learning classifiers for multiple
languages is a costly and time-consuming process. Instead of relying on labels generated by
manual coding, we explore the use of ‘distant’ labels created by cues in article URLs.
Specifically, we explore how sections reflected in URLs (e.g., nytimes.com/politics/) can
help create training material for supervised machine learning classifiers. Using cues
provided by news media organizations, such an approach allows for efficient political news
identification at scale, while also allowing easy implementation across languages. We rely
on an existing data set that consists of approximately 870,000 URLs of news-related
content from four different countries (Italy, Germany, Netherlands, Poland), with a large
sample of hand-labelled articles for each country. We test this method by providing a
comparison to ‘classical’ supervised machine learning, and expand topic identification to
sports, entertainment, and economic news. Our results suggest that the use of URL section
cues to distantly annotate texts provides a cheap and easy-to-implement way of classifying
large volumes of news texts that can save researchers much valuable resources without
necessarily having to sacrifice quality.
